---
enabled: false
layout: post
tags: Top,Security,JavaScript,Research,Supply-Chain-Security,Browser,Web3
title: My take on xxx
url: https://weizman.github.io/
date: 09/09/2023
description: here is my take
keywords: research, security, JavaScript, Web3, supply chain attacks, web
image: snow-metamask-2.jpg

---

> _By [Gal Weizman](https://github.com/weizman)_

my take xxx

> _tl;dr_

## My reply to Shubham Shah's tweet on whether client side security even matters

Not too long ago, the well known security researcher [Shubham Shah](https://shubs.io/) wrote the following tweet:

<blockquote class="twitter-tweet"><p lang="en" dir="ltr">For the first 3-4 years that I was working in infosec, I found client side security so exciting. I stayed on top of every new technique and studied new techniques closely. After this, I took a step back and realised that all of my work on client side security felt helpless,…</p>&mdash; shubs (@infosec_au) <a href="https://twitter.com/infosec_au/status/1698322940159557987?ref_src=twsrc%5Etfw">September 3, 2023</a></blockquote> <script async src="https://platform.twitter.com/widgets.js" charset="utf-8"></script>

And to me this was magical, because Shubham - like a good security researcher - managed to press some of my weak points pretty accurately.
Truth be told, I've being brewing with similar feelings for long periods of time throughout my career, and I still do. 
To this day I battle my strong desire and pure passion for the field of client side security with rational thoughts and the understandable wish for a long, stable and thriving career as an individual in the tech industry.

Shubham's tweet made me realize that the fact that this dilemma had taken me through multiple emotional rides throughout my career already, had got to the point where it's time to digest it and self-reflect it, in terms of its relationship with the cyber security industry, the importance of its role in the ecosystem, and its future.

To me, that usually means to write. Writing helps me clear my head and put my thoughts in order. In regards with the client side security industry, it's time to do just that - so buckle up.

### Shubham's tweet

So first of all, what's all the fuzz about? 

For context, Shubham is a security researcher with a lot of experience, both with vulnerability research and with application security.
And from his tweet, it seems that his vast experience with application security had made him understand that when applications were suffering from security breaches, it was almost always the responsibility of components that aren't the client side:

> "_I analysed the reasons companies faced great hardship, and most of the time it was not because of client side security issues but rather server side issues that led to critical impact on their infrastructure._"

Shubham made me connect to his experience by expressing a similar passion he had out of hope and belief (almost self convincement?) that securing the client side is truly important, until it failed to hold water against logic and reality:

> _"For the first 3-4 years that I was working in infosec, I found client side security so exciting. I stayed on top of every new technique and studied new techniques closely. After this, I took a step back and realised that all of my work on client side security felt helpless, useless, to some extent. "_

As a security expert, responsible for auditing the security of applications by naturally going after the most impact apps can go under, Shubham had to shift his efforts towards other areas than the client side:

> _"A part of me thought that client side security issues still had impact to the end users (and they still do), but I couldn't cite a single example where a company had lost so much due to a client side issue. It really shaped my mindset and perspective for what to be looking for when auditing an application, and is the reason why I became so deeply invested in server side security."_

But what really got me, was the fear of ever saying the following words:

> _"I still try and stay on top of client side security exploitation techniques, but they don't really excite me anymore."_

Because knowing the industry and relating to Shubham sees things, I can see myself ending up in a similar place.
And I take this harder than Shubham maybe, because of the relationship I have with client side security, for better or worse.

### My relationship with client side security

> In this section I'll lay out some context about me and the path I went through for you to better judge my perspective on client side security and the
promising future I see for it. I encourage you to read it, but you can still decide to [skip on to my take](#my-take-on-client-side-security).

#### Buckle up

As an 18yo Israeli, I was to serve the Israeli Defense Forces by duty. There are many roles to take as part of this obligation, and the intelligent and/or fortunate ones serve in the Israeli Intelligence Corps, a batch of units which are mostly responsible for collecting valuable intel for national security. The most impactful way for achieving that is by practicing what you might know as "Offensive Cyber Security", which is a primary reason why Israel is considered to be a world class leader in cyber security.

The most popular one, which I ended up at, is called 8200.

If truth to be told, on that spectrum between intelligent and fortunate, I was probably a lot closer to fortunate than intelligent.
The proof of that was the fact that the professionality gap between the training course I was accepted to and the team I ended up in was the result of no less than an accident (a story for another day).

Naturally, such a gap introduced significant difficulties for me, as I struggled a lot to keep up with the rest of the team. I was surrounded by highly competent individuals, which became highly skilled in each of their own distinct field of expertise, whereas I was a colorless weak link. It was no picnic.

After a year and a half of doing mostly QA and struggling to learn Python, it was decided that our team should take some extra responsibility by absorbing a security field that belonged to another team, meaning no one in my team were familiar with that field - Browser JavaScript (offensive) Security.

Being the perfect opportunity for me to take on something that is not only a bigger contribution to the joint effort than the things I've done so far, but most importantly a chance for me to find my own color and to become an expert in a field no one else (in my team) is - I jumped on it immediately.

And so began the bumpy ride I of mine I call career.

#### The ride of my life

One decade forward, and I've been focusing almost entirely on JavaScript security. Working for the best in the field, I've gained experience in almost every client side 
security field one can imagine - whether it's 
[vulnerability research](https://weizmangal.com/?tags=CVEs), 
[anti debugging](https://weizmangal.com/?tags=Anti-Debug), 
[web extensions security](https://weizmangal.com/?tags=MetaMask), 
bot detection, 
[supply chain security](https://weizmangal.com/?tags=Supply-Chain-Security) or 
[JavaScript security](https://weizmangal.com/2021/07/18/securely-snow-across/).

While fun for the most part, the ride was bumpy because for some parts of it I was unsure of whether focusing so much on client side security is a smart move.
Taking such an active part of this industry, I learned (the hard way) that this is a niche industry, and while you might feel pretty wanted by some companies,
such skills won't serve you similarly for the big amount of the others.

Leaving [PerimeterX](https://perimeterx.com/) (now [Human](https://www.humansecurity.com/)), I wanted to move on to the offensive cyber-security industry to advance my
vulnerability research and exploitation skills 
(right after finding a [major breach in WhatsApp Desktop](https://weizmangal.com/2020/02/14/whatsapp-vuln/) and a [CSP bypass in Chromium](https://weizmangal.com/2020/09/02/csp-vuln/)).

After learning more about this industry, combined with personal choices, I changed my mind and decided to pass on this industry, which got me to think - _if not this, what then?_

#### The wrong choice?

This was a 3 months turbulence of emotions around the fear of whether I wasted the most important years of my career on this one niece field no one has any interest of?

I mean, being a security pro is great, the need for security specialists isn't going to end anytime soon, especially in popular fields such as cloud security.
Same goes for JavaScript - being a pro in JS and an excellent JS engineer is also a safe bet as JS is still the most popular programming language in the world.

But a strict combination of the two? Perhaps too small of a cell in the tech industry matrix of needed skills.

As part of this roller coaster I was fortunate enough to consult with great people I look up to on the matter. 
One of them was [Bionic](https://bionic.ai/)'s co-founder (acquired by [CrowdStrike](https://www.crowdstrike.com/)) [Eyal Mamo](https://www.crunchbase.com/person/eyal-mamo) 
which I got to know from the military service.

Eyal clearly understood where I was coming from and agreed I should broaden my horizons so that my perspective on security is wider, even if just slightly.

And that's how I joined Bionic for a standard FullStack software development position - a very different one from what I've been focusing on before - out of belief
fully betting on client side security might not be the smartest thing to do.

And while Bionic turned out to be a great experience (both for working there and for it to be later acquired), 
I left Bionic only 1.5 years later - because the passion for client side security didn't die off, it just went stronger only to result in a great next opportunity.

#### The right choice

While working at Bionic, I kept learning about the world of client side security, and two initiatives I found fascinating were
[LavaMoat](https://weizmangal.com/?tags=LavaMoat) and [SES](https://github.com/endojs/endo/tree/master/packages/ses).

After partly wrapping my head around them and the problem they address, it came clear to me JavaScript security is far from a solved problem - and that
directly affects browser client side security.

At the time I was working on my own side project called [Snow](https://github.com/lavamoat/snow) to address another non-solved problem in client side 
security I refer to as [the Same Origin Concern](https://weizmangal.com/2023/09/28/the-same-origin-concern/).

I reached out to [@kumavis](https://github.com/kumavis) (the creator of LavaMoat) to discuss the different problems we both attempt to address, and it made sense to
both of us that my work could be a great addition to the LavaMoat project which focuses on securing JavaScript both for their main 
product ([MetaMask](https://weizmangal.com/?tags=MetaMask)) and for anyone in the world. 

So why am I telling you all this?

### My take on client side security

What does the future hold for client side security? Given my experience and perspective, I'll try to answer that.

#### The death of client side security?

Referring back to Shubham's take, security is architected so that the backend of an app carries the core responsibility for its security.

And rightfully so - in contrary to the client side, the backend is more capable of that for being able to manifest logic that no outer entity
has access to nor the ability to tamper with, whereas with the client side it's the other way around - anything that's being served to the client
is by definition fully accessible for it to both read and modify.

This core principal leads to an important conclusion - the client side is not to be trusted to begin with, so why even bother securing it?

This hopefully gives you a taste of the anxiety I went through multiple times throughout my career - if there's no good reason to secure
the client side and this is the one single thing I feel I have an advantage in, is my career based on an unneeded skill?

Sure, there are some use cases for securing the client side, but are they niece reasons barely relevant to the tech industry, as it will
mostly focus on securing other components of their applications (probably forever)?

That's the conclusion I was arriving at when I joined Bionic to gradually migrate away from my passion for client side security.

But right before giving up for good, I decided to go for one last round by joining MetaMask's LavaMoat effort, to see once and for all whether
there's still something to it, or is client side security is basically a lost cause?

#### A second chance

Joining LavaMoat, meeting brilliant people focusing on securing the JavaScript ecosystem, I rediscovered the reasons for why client side
security is going to matter a lot in the future and why I personally feel confident betting on it more than ever.

I mostly have two main reasons on my mind:

#### Supply Chain Security

This one is a reason I had in mind even before joining. In fact, our shared take on it is what drove LavaMoat to adopt Snow into its set of security tools.

The bottom line is that the evolution of web application development had put us in a place where telling what code our application is going to execute is pretty much impossible.

Saying that 10 years ago would have considered to be a ridicules take, but since then supply chain driven development became so prominent that most web apps nowadays are 
composed of around 90% of code written by other entities - entities we can hardly verify nor blindly trust.

And trust is far from enough too, because even if the maintainer is verified to be trustworthy for years, meaning they have no malicious intentions - a malicious entity
can still compromise access preserved to the maintainer and abuse it.

So from a world where unwanted code execution was mostly XSS, which can be specifically identified and mitigated, malicious code can now be introduced from within the
application itself - a far harder form of abuse to detect.

In other words - code we don't trust can potentially end up running in your application, and trusting backend solutions to prevent it can no longer cut it, because statically
identifying this is just too complex of a task. 

And when preventing something is too hard, the second-best way to tackle it is by waiting for it to happen. 

And when it comes to breached web applications, it "happens" in the client side.

Thus, the industry will have to result into client side based detection tools in addition to backend prevention attempts, 
as such breaches can generate damage too big to recover from - a risk that companies can't afford to take.

In the past years, attempts to create such security tools were already made (coming from the co-creator of PerimeterX [CodeDefender](https://www.humansecurity.com/products/code-defender)),
but quite unsuccessfully. Perhaps because the timing was off, or because my take is simply wrong - time will tell.

#### Composability

#### Web3
